Added blog article related to maintenance status of packages (#189)
laminas/getlaminas.org: data/blog/2024/2024-07-23-current-maintenance-status-of-laminas-mezzio-packages.md

---
id: 2024-07-23-current-maintenance-status-of-laminas-mezzio-packages
author: julian
title: 'Current Maintenance Status of Laminas & Mezzio Packages'
draft: false
public: true
created: '2024-07-23T11:00:00-01:00'
updated: '2024-07-23T11:00:00-01:00'
tags:
  - custom proprieties
  - maintenance status
---

The Laminas Project has created a large number of packages to serve the needs of the PHP community.
But what happens when you need to make sure that the package you want to use in your application is being actively
maintained?
Sure, you can check each package manually, but the most useful thing would be a full overview of this vital
information.

<!--- EXTENDED -->

### Laminas and Mezzio packages maintenance status at a glance

The page below intends to provide exactly that - a fast, accessible way to examine every package at a glance. It

> contains columns for each of the three organizations: Laminas, Mezzio and Api Tools. The page automatically refreshes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains columns for each subproject: Mezzio, Laminas Components, Laminas MVC and API Tools. The page automatically refreshes
```

the package status daily, is sorted alphabetically and is publicly available.

[**Current Maintenance Status of Laminas & Mezzio Packages**](https://getlaminas.org/packages-maintenance-status/)

### Stay vigilant!

Things are constantly in motion, though, so you need to check on this page regularly to make sure that the packages you
chose for your project are still reliable. If the status of a package changes from active to `maintenance-only`,
`security-only` or is `discontinued`, you can quickly see it and take action.
The handy link to the relevant Technical Steering Committee minute file details the reason for the status change and a

> recommended solution for moving forward.

Reviewer: This part sounds rather negative to me: "Stay vigilant!", "…you need to check…" and "…are still reliable…". We make it mandatory for the user, otherwise he has lost. 
Either we describe the advantages of the simple and up-to-date overview, or the section has to be deleted completely.

Another option is to simply wait until the documentation for the individual packages also contains the information, then we can offer several places to read the status.

Author: I just updated the article

---
id: 2024-07-23-current-maintenance-status-of-laminas-mezzio-packages
author: julian
title: 'Current Maintenance Status of Laminas & Mezzio Packages'
draft: false
public: true
created: '2024-07-23T11:00:00-01:00'
updated: '2024-07-23T11:00:00-01:00'
tags:
  - laminas api tools
  - custom proprieties
  - maintenance status
---

Laminas Project has created a large number of packages to serve the needs of the PHP community. Unfortunately, there is
no aggregated place to see the status of each package easily. You would need to visit each one of them on GitHub and
check out the *Custom Properties* page. And that is when you remember to do so...

<!--- EXTENDED -->

### Laminas and Mezzio packages maintenance status at a glance

The page below intends to provide a fast, accessible way to examine every package at a glance. It provides a column for
each of the three organizations: Laminas, Api Tools and Mezzio.
The page is automatically refreshed daily and is publicly available.

[**Current Maintenance Status of Laminas & Mezzio Packages**](https://getlaminas.org/packages-maintenance-status/)

> There is also a JSON version [**here**](https://getlaminas.org/share/properties.json). It contains the full list of

Reviewer: This information can already be found on the overview page, but it is not so important that it needs to be included in the blog post.

Author: fixed,  the article was refactored a bit

---
id: 2024-07-23-current-maintenance-status-of-laminas-mezzio-packages
author: julian
title: 'Current Maintenance Status of Laminas & Mezzio Packages'
draft: false
public: true
created: '2024-07-23T11:00:00-01:00'
updated: '2024-07-23T11:00:00-01:00'
tags:
  - laminas api tools
  - custom proprieties
  - maintenance status
---

Laminas Project has created a large number of packages to serve the needs of the PHP community. Unfortunately, there is
no aggregated place to see the status of each package easily. You would need to visit each one of them on GitHub and

> check out the *Custom Properties* page. And that is when you remember to do so...

Author: In each repository, the page is called 'Custom Proprieties" page, that why I used that name 
The name of the class will be changed in the next PR 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fe7d824d-0af8-4fdf-a739-5b42a7df7a1f)

> check out the *Custom Properties* page. And that is when you remember to do so...

Reviewer: Right, the page on GitHub is named that way, but we do not want to push the user in that direction.
As a reminder:

1. Creating the overview page
1. Adding the badge to each component documentation
1. Updating the Readme file

The typical user will not look at the custom properties page, and with these steps it is not necessary.

> check out the *Custom Properties* page. And that is when you remember to do so...

Reviewer: To clarify my suggestion: put the description of the badges at the end of the overview page and rewrite the blog post so that it is an advertisement for the new overview. This means that all important information should be contained on the maintaince overview page and not one part in the blog and the other part in the overview.

### Laminas and Mezzio packages maintenance status at a glance

The page below intends to provide a fast, accessible way to examine every package at a glance. It provides a column for
each of the three organizations: Laminas, Api Tools and Mezzio.
The page is automatically refreshed daily and is publicly available.

[**Current Maintenance Status of Laminas & Mezzio Packages**](https://getlaminas.org/packages-maintenance-status/)

There is also a JSON version [**here**](https://getlaminas.org/share/properties.json). It contains the full list of
properties for each package. Note that the properties differ between organizations.

Below is the meaning of each status. The non-active statuses may include the date when they were set and the Technical
Steering Committee minute file where they were discussed.

- **active** - The component is receiving regular updates and maintenance.
- **maintenance-only** - The component is receiving only maintenance-related updates, but no new features.
- **security-only** - The component is receiving only security-related updates, but no new features.
- **discontinued** - The component has been abandoned, so it will receive no new updates.

> Also, you can use a *Dynamic JSON Badge* anywhere, using the Markdown sample below:

Author: For instance, in Dotkernel org we have sevaral package which are wrappers on top of laminas packages.
And i am sure that is not a singular case. 

https://github.com/dotkernel/dot-mail
This package even its own OSS lifecycle is `active` it  is a wrapper around laminas-mail which is visible `discontinued` 
Which means that in the near future the dot-mail package will be refactored to use a different mail package.

Same situation with https://github.com/dotkernel/dot-session
A wrapper on top of laminas-session, and both are for the moment `active`.
Those kind of "linked" statuses would be nice to be visible.

> Also, you can use a *Dynamic JSON Badge* anywhere, using the Markdown sample below:

Reviewer: The same: is internal! 😄
